---
date: 2020-01-13
title: Devlog 1 - Getting Started
summary: First week of working with museums

# optional header image (relative to 'static/img/' folder).
header:
  caption: ""
  image: ""
tags:
  - devlog
  - Ethics
  - Museum of History
  - Museology
---

# Starting to Think About Museums

This week, one of the first questions we had to thing about was concerning the very definition of a museum. Personally, I chose to define a museum as anything. I did this because once we begin to think about what a museum is (a collection of objects and artefacts that have been deemed significant), this also brings in spaces like the home, stores, junkyards, and other places outside of the standard institution. I believe that it is important to do this, as to limit "important" objects to ones that have been chosen by these institutions limits our perception of history to specific narratives. By opening this up, we can begin to understand that history is not only found in objects in museums, but also in everyday objects and places that we encounter. 

This idea of the history in the everyday is related to my interests in museums, which is how museums and collectors choose what to prioritize when it comes to their processes of archiving and curation, and how the ideas of current versus future value factors into that. 

Another significant theme that we encountered this week concerns the ethics of musueums and collections, and how it related to the networks that museums participate in. The reading ["*Collections: How we Hold the Stuff We Hold in Trust*"](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/58fa685dff7c50f78be5f2b2/t/59dcdd27e5dd5b5a1b51d9d8/1507646780650/TOOLKIT_10_2017.pdf) confronts many of these issues, especially concerning the fact that the idea of the museum was largely developed and informed by the colonial period. My takeaway from this reading was that the ethics of museums and collections are incredibly complicated, and it is the responsibility of the people that come into contact with these objects to deal with and recognise these issues, and to either make them right when possible (i.e. returning stolen items) or when that is not possible, to make these issues evident when presenting them, as opposed to hiding an object's complicated past. I would also argue that confronting these issues adds more value to an item, as it shows the hsitorical work that the collector has done, and that the provenence (one of my favourite parts of looking at artefacts) - even when not complete - is something that is being considered. 

Another issue that was raised in the Krep reading concerned non-western museums and collections that are often forgetten in the discussions surrounding museums. This was one of the reasons that I decided to make such an expansive definition of what a museum is, as it opens up non-western collections to this definition. The reading also made me think about how we prioritize Western modes of preservation as though they are the only way of "saving" an object from time (please imagine lots of eye-rolls when reading the second half of that sentence). This is often a reason used to keep artefacts in the hands of institutions and away from their historical owners, that they are somehow incapable of protecting and presenting their own heritage and institutions have the moral duty to protect and present their history for them. This issue also deals with the fact that many believe that the public has a "right" to the history of others, that after a time, the private holdings of an individual in the past become the property of the public. Once again, this is a very Western idea, (arguably based on Christian issues of the need to detach oneself from the material world, and the emphasis on the loss of material goods in death, but I digress) one that is harmful and also in many ways a double standard. One might ask if the British Museums would raid the family heirlooms of their own people, as opposed to taking objects from others.

This week I also began working with Tropy and trying to figure out how to use it for our needs. Looking at the Museum of History site and the metadata that they attached to their records, I wanted to match the fields so that when doing our own records, we are not losing any information, regardless of whether or not it seems relevant to our needs. I felt this necessary because very often information concerning artefacts can be lost, and by not including every piece of information we would be losing out on things that may becone relevant in the future. One of my first frustrations with the program was in its limited vocabularies. Being in Canada, we use the CHIN (Canadian Heritage Information Network) core standards to define artefacts, but this has not been made into a vocabulary on the site that Tropy privides. 

To find an appropriate vocabulary, I began searching this [site](https://lov.linkeddata.es/dataset/lov/ "Title") (which Tropy provided) for vocabularies related to the humanities, but was quickly overwhelmed by the sheer number available. So, instead I decided to search for terms, as that was the specific aspect that I wanted to match with the CHIN standards. I chose to search "materials" as it is a very important and relevant field that many vocabularies were missing, making it a good indicator that a vocabulary would be useable. By doing this I came across [Schema](https://schema.org/ "schema"), a vocabulary that - according to their site - is used by over 10 million websites. I downloaded this vocabulary and added it to Tropy, and finally created a template that will let me add the relevant information to my records. Click [this link](https://github.com/maggiesherwin/academic-kickstart/tree/master/assets/files/museum-documents) to see and download the schema vocabulary and Museum of History template that I have used/created.

### Other things I learned!
- This site engine adds dashes to tags, so tags are able to use spaces between words! 
