---
date: 2020-01-20
title: Devlog 2 - Visiting Archives
summary: Visiting the CMH Archives

# optional header image (relative to 'static/img/' folder).
header:
  caption: ""
  image: ""
tags:
  - devlog
  - Museum of History
  - Museology
---

# Visit to CMH Archives

This week, we went to visit the archives and artefacts of the Canadian Museum of History. The main thing that struck me while there was that data, resource, and archive management are all just as messy and difficult within a larger institution than outside of it. Much of this was something I already knew, but it was affirming to hear it from people actually working with it.

One of the first questions I asked about the CMH archives was about language and terminology differences, and how they are dealing with this. I first came across this issue of the need to belence bilingualism with streamlined data while working with the NFB archive and their government site. Their french and english site are completely separated, with searching both an impossibility. I imaging that this is an issue in many databases, but being in canada, it is enivitable that we encounter it and learn how to cope. I am lucky in that I am mostly bilingual, and as such, I am able to navigate both english and french results. But if a person that speaks no english interacts with canadian databases, it is almost certain that they will miss out on results. I think that the only solution to this would be a search engine that can also search for the same key terms in different languages, as well as thier synonyms. But I believe that is a ways off. **What we could do is possibly create lists of common terms and their adjectives/translations so that those searching a database have the tools they need in order to find what they are looking for.**

Another thing that struck me about the museum and what we discussed was how obvious the need for universal nomenclature is. Official nomenclature is necessary in order to ensure that objects and archives are both properly defined, but also are capable of bring found. 
