---
date: 2020-02-23
title: Devlog 4 - Digital Narratives
summary: Using digital tools to enhance museum and archives

# optional header image (relative to 'static/img/' folder).
header:
  caption: ""
  image: ""
tags:
  - devlog
  - Museums
  - Digital Tools
---

# Digital Narratives

This week has had me thinking about how we can/will/should combine technology with institutions like museums and archives, and how that can effect the narratives that these spaces are trying to create.

One thing I kept thinking of during the seminar this week was about this idea of a guided versus unguided archive. Museums are often carefully curated in order to portray a specific message about the artifacts being presented. Without that, while more freedom is being given to the viewer when it comes to choosing what to give attention, it can also cause harm in that it expects the audience to be knowledgable about what they are looking at. For people within the insitiutions, it is often hard to enter the mind of the passive student being forced to attend their school trip. I would wager that most people going to museums and archives are not going to take the initiative to look further into what interests them, especially without the museum guiding them along. This is why in my opinion, it is important to encourage the use of technology in museums, as they can help facillitate interation and interest in subjects.

And then there are the art galleries. For myself, the very nature of art is being changed because of technology, allowing us to see what the artist did not want us to see. Having a background in film and arts, this is troubling because it takes away the agency of an artist. The incredible zoom feature that we saw from google allows people to see the smallest of details, but by doing that they risk taking away from the actual image. Van Gogh never imagined that someone would be looking that closely at the image he painted. This is why I think that online galleries are useful in that they allow people to see artwork that they never would have been able to see before and they help these works that are in public domain become accessible (thank you wikimedia commons). But when it comes to actual appreciation of the art, looking at the whole image is much more important than looking at its parts. 

Another thing we spoke about was affect, and how technology can be used to facillitate it. (It can also be argued that within groups like SCA and other historical reinactment groups, technology explicetly inhibits effect, but I digress) Firstly, the idea that affect can be measured is incredibly dubious. Without time-consuming and invasive surveys, it is impossible to know how a person feels about what they are seeing. 

## Site

I figured out that if I create a new branch, I can create empty files for my upcoming devlogs, meaning all I have to do is input text and merge the branch back to the main one to publish! (This is helpful as it means I don't have to go through the trouble of creating the formatted markdown file every week)

## Heritage Jam

This week for the CSTM data and heritage jam, we have begun clean up! Our list of tasks so far:
- Limit CSTM data to makrers only
- Duplicate all rows to input clean data into, leaving the old rows alone so there is no data loss
- Fix spelling errors and make all fields properly capitalized
- Add information concerning installation/repair/removal and the people related to it
- Figure out how to deal with materials
- Can an API grab an image from a URL in a field???? Who knows!
